design/SPC-asts.md, before:

# SPC-asts
The `inrange` macro shall read the annotations of the class variables in the class definition, and generate properties with the same names as the annotated class variables. Annotations for class variables are stored in the `MyClass.__annotations__` dictionary. If this class attribute does not exist, it means that there are no annotated class variables. An exception shall be raised if there are no annotations.


## [[.decorator]]
The decorator shall only be applied to a class definition. A `MacroError` shall be raised if the decorator is applied to an object for which `type(my_object)` is not `type`.

The decorator should follow this sequence of events:
- Check the type of the argument.
- Check that annotations exist.
- Instantiate the processor with `InRangeProcessor(cls)`.
- Produce the new class definition with `InRangeProcessor.produce()`.
- Return the new class definition.

### Unit Tests
Invalid inputs:
- [[.tst-rejects-funcs]]: Test that the decorator raises a `MacroError` when applied to a function definition.
- [[.tst-rejects-methods]]: Test that the decorator raises a `MacroError` when applied to a method definition.
- [[.tst-no-annotations]]: Test that applying the decorator to a class with no annotations raises a `MacroError`.

### Integration Tests
- [[.tst-generates-props]]: Test that the decorator successfully generates properties for a class with correct annotations.

# SPC-asts-proc
The engine behind the macro will be a class named `InRangeProcessor`. For the class definition
```python
class MyClass:
    foo: "0 < foo < 10"
```
the processor should generate a class equivalent to
```python
class MyClass:
    foo: "0 < foo < 10"

    def __init__(self):
        self._foo = None

    @property
    def foo(self):
        return self._foo

    @foo.setter
    def foo(self, value):
        if (value > 0) and (value < 10):
            self._foo = value
```

The `InRangeProcessor` class shall produce a new class using this procedure:
- Collect the class variables with annotations.
- Parse each annotation into an AST.
- Extract the endpoints of each range.
- Construct each getter AST.
- Construct each setter AST.
- Convert the getter/setter ASTs to functions.
- Construct a property from the getter and setter functions.
- Add all new properties to the class.
- If an `__init__` method exists, parse it into an AST.
- Construct an `__init__` method AST if `__init__` doesn't exist.
- Modify the `__init__` AST to create the instance variables that back the properties.
- Convert the `__init__` AST back to a function.
- Bind the `__init__` function to the class.

## [[.proc]]
Instantiating `InRangeProcessor` shall require a class object. The class will initialize the following pieces of data:
- `self._cls`: The class that the processor is applied to.
- `self._items`: The macro items to process.
- `self._cls_fname`: The filename of the file that contains the class.
- `self._mod_ast`: The AST of the module that contains the class.
- `self._new_props`: The properties generated by the macro.
- `self._new_init_stmts`: The statements to be appended to `__init__`.

Processing shall occurr once the `InRangeProcessor.produce()` method is called, not on initialization.

## [[.item]]
The information about each class variable that has been selected for processing shall be bundled into an instance of the `MacroItem` class. The `MacroItem` class shall store the following pieces of data:
- The name of the class variable.
- The original annotation string.
- The numeric value of the range's lower bound.
- The numeric value of the range's upper bound.
- The getter function.
- The setter function.

All attributes except the field name and annotation will be initialized to `None`.

## [[.collect]]
For each `(field, annotation)` in `cls.__annotations__` the processor shall:
- Skip `field` if `annotation` is not a string.
- Construct a `MacroItem` from `field` and `annotation`.
- Add the item to `self._items`.

### Unit Tests
Invalid inputs:
- [[.tst-no-strings]]: Test that a `MacroError` is raised if none of the annotations are strings.
Valid inputs:
- [[.tst-mixed-strings]]: Test that class variables with string annotations are collected.

## [[.parse]]: Parse annotations into ASTs
The annotation should be passed straight to `ast.parse`, which will return an `ast.Module`. The `ast.Compare` node shall be extracted from the module AST.

If the string is properly formatted, the module's `body` field will contain a single item: an `ast.Expr` node. The expression's `value` field should be an `ast.Compare` node.

### Unit Tests
Invalid inputs:
- [[.tst-not-comparison]]: Test that only `ast.Compare` nodes are accepted.

## [[.extract]]: Extract range endpoints
An expression of the form `x < y < 5` will produce the following node:
```
Compare(left=Name(id='x', ctx=ast.Load()),
        ops=[
            ast.Lt(),
            ast.Lt(),
        ],
        comparators=[
            ast.Name(id='y', ctx=ast.Load()),
            ast.Num(n=5),
        ],
)
```
Note that although you would typically read this expression as "y is greater than x and less than 5", the node stores this as "x is less than y, which is less than 5".

A value that appears with a negative sign (`-`) in front of it will be wrapped in an `ast.UnaryOp` node, like so:
```
ast.UnaryOp(op=ast.USub(), operand=ast.Num(n=5))
```

`InRangeProcessor` shall extract endpoints that are positive or negative numbers.

### Unit Tests
Valid inputs:
- [[.tst-pos-int]]: Test that positive integers are extracted.
- [[.tst-neg-int]]: Test that negative integers are extracted.
- [[.tst-pos-float]]: Test that positive floats are extracted.
- [[.tst-neg-float]]: Test that negative floats are extracted.
Invalid inputs:
- [[.tst-only-lits]]: Test that only literals are accepted.
Semantics:
- [[.tst-order]]: Test that ranges are rejected when the left literal is greater than the right literal.
- [[.tst-equal]]: Test that ranges are rejected when the two literals are equal.

## [[.ast-func]]
There shall be a method `ast_to_func` that converts an AST into a function. The method shall take the AST and the name of the function as arguments.

## [[.getter]]:
The getter function for the property will have the name `var_getter`, where `var` is the name of the corresponding class variable. The getter shall return the attribute `self._var`. The getter function shall be stored in the `MacroItem` for the corresponding class variable.

## [[.setter]]
The setter function for the property will have the name `var_setter`, where `var` is the name of the corresponding class variable. The setter shall only set the value of `self._var` when the provided value is within the range specified in the annotation. The setter function shall be stored in the `MacroItem` for the corresponding class variable.

### Unit Tests
Invalid inputs:
- [[.tst-outside-range]]: Test that the setter rejects values not in the specified range.
- [[.tst-setter-types]]: Test that the setter rejects values that are not integers or floats.
Valid inputs:
- [[.tst-in-range]]: Test that the setter accepts values in the specified range.

## [[.property]]
A property shall be constructed from the getter and setter functions stored in the `MacroItem` instance.

## [[.detect-init]]: Detect a class-specific `__init__` method
The processor shall detect whether the class definition includes its own `__init__`, or whether the `__init__` method is inherited. The contents of `MyClass.__init__.__qualname__` should end with `MyClass.__init__` if `MyClass` has its own `__init__` method (rather than an inherited one).

The processor shall have a method `InRangeProcessor._has_init()` that returns `True` when the class definition includes its own `__init__`, and `False` when the `__init__` is inherited.

### Unit Tests
Valid inputs:
- [[.tst-without-init]]: Test that the processor returns `False` when `__init__` is inherited.
- [[.tst-with-init]]: Test that `_has_init()` returns `True` when a class defines an `__init__` method.

## [[.init-ast]]: Construct `__init__` AST
When no `__init__` is included with the class definition, the processor shall construct an AST equivalent to
```
def __init__(self):
    super().__init__()
```
The processor shall have a static method named `InRangeProcessor._make_empty_init_ast()` that produces this AST.

## [[.init-stmts]]: Add initializations to `__init__`
A statement of the form `self._var = None` shall be appended to the `__init__` AST for each class variable selected for processing. These statements initialize the instance attributes that store the data used by the generated properties.

For a class definition
```
class MyClass:
    foo: "0 < foo < 1"
    bar: "1 < bar < 2"
```
the following statements should be added to `__init__`:
```
self._foo = None
self._bar = None
```
If `MyClass` had the following `__init__` method
```
def __init__(self, qux):
    self.qux = qux
```
the new `__init__` should be equivalent to
```
def __init__(self, qux):
    self.qux = qux
    self._foo = None
    self._bar = None
```

### Unit Tests
Basic function:
- [[.tst-init-stmts]]: Test that the backing instance variables are created.

## [[.bind-init]]: Bind `__init__` to class
To bind the `__init__` function to the class you execute the following line:
```python
setattr(self.cls, "__init__", init_func.__get__(self.cls))
```
where `setattr` has the signature
```
setattr(object, attribute, value)
```
and `object.__get__` has the signature
```
object.__get__(self, instance, owner)
```
I don't remember how this works.
All functions are non-date descriptors, meaning they define the `__get__` method of the descriptor protocol. The descriptor protocol
```
x.__get__(obj)
x.__set__(obj)
x.__del__(obj)
```
allows you to override what happens when the attribute lookup `obj.x` is performed depending on whether you're getting (`y = obj.x`), setting (`obj.x = y`), or deleting (`del obj.x`) the attribute.

Commit message:

Parse valid annotations into ASTs

design/SPC-asts.md, after:

# SPC-asts
The `inrange` macro shall read the annotations of the class variables in the class definition, and generate properties with the same names as the annotated class variables. Annotations for class variables are stored in the `MyClass.__annotations__` dictionary. If this class attribute does not exist, it means that there are no annotated class variables. An exception shall be raised if there are no annotations.


## [[.decorator]]
The decorator shall only be applied to a class definition. A `MacroError` shall be raised if the decorator is applied to an object for which `type(my_object)` is not `type`.

The decorator should follow this sequence of events:
- Check the type of the argument.
- Check that annotations exist.
- Instantiate the processor with `InRangeProcessor(cls)`.
- Produce the new class definition with `InRangeProcessor.produce()`.
- Return the new class definition.

### Unit Tests
Invalid inputs:
- [[.tst-rejects-funcs]]: Test that the decorator raises a `MacroError` when applied to a function definition.
- [[.tst-rejects-methods]]: Test that the decorator raises a `MacroError` when applied to a method definition.
- [[.tst-no-annotations]]: Test that applying the decorator to a class with no annotations raises a `MacroError`.

### Integration Tests
- [[.tst-generates-props]]: Test that the decorator successfully generates properties for a class with correct annotations.

# SPC-asts-proc
The engine behind the macro will be a class named `InRangeProcessor`. For the class definition
```python
class MyClass:
    foo: "0 < foo < 10"
```
the processor should generate a class equivalent to
```python
class MyClass:
    foo: "0 < foo < 10"

    def __init__(self):
        self._foo = None

    @property
    def foo(self):
        return self._foo

    @foo.setter
    def foo(self, value):
        if (value > 0) and (value < 10):
            self._foo = value
```

The `InRangeProcessor` class shall produce a new class using this procedure:
- Collect the class variables with annotations.
- Parse each annotation into an AST.
- Extract the endpoints of each range.
- Construct each getter AST.
- Construct each setter AST.
- Convert the getter/setter ASTs to functions.
- Construct a property from the getter and setter functions.
- Add all new properties to the class.
- If an `__init__` method exists, parse it into an AST.
- Construct an `__init__` method AST if `__init__` doesn't exist.
- Modify the `__init__` AST to create the instance variables that back the properties.
- Convert the `__init__` AST back to a function.
- Bind the `__init__` function to the class.

## [[.proc]]
Instantiating `InRangeProcessor` shall require a class object. The class will initialize the following pieces of data:
- `self._cls`: The class that the processor is applied to.
- `self._items`: The macro items to process.
- `self._cls_fname`: The filename of the file that contains the class.
- `self._mod_ast`: The AST of the module that contains the class.
- `self._new_props`: The properties generated by the macro.
- `self._new_init_stmts`: The statements to be appended to `__init__`.

Processing shall occurr once the `InRangeProcessor.produce()` method is called, not on initialization.

## [[.item]]
The information about each class variable that has been selected for processing shall be bundled into an instance of the `MacroItem` class. The `MacroItem` class shall store the following pieces of data:
- The name of the class variable.
- The original annotation string.
- The numeric value of the range's lower bound.
- The numeric value of the range's upper bound.
- The getter function.
- The setter function.

All attributes except the field name and annotation will be initialized to `None`.

## [[.collect]]
For each `(field, annotation)` in `cls.__annotations__` the processor shall:
- Skip `field` if `annotation` is not a string.
- Construct a `MacroItem` from `field` and `annotation`.
- Add the item to `self._items`.

### Unit Tests
Invalid inputs:
- [[.tst-no-strings]]: Test that a `MacroError` is raised if none of the annotations are strings.
Valid inputs:
- [[.tst-mixed-strings]]: Test that class variables with string annotations are collected.

## [[.parse]]: Parse annotations into ASTs
The annotation should be passed straight to `ast.parse`, which will return an `ast.Module`. The `ast.Compare` node shall be extracted from the module AST.

If the string is properly formatted, the module's `body` field will contain a single item: an `ast.Expr` node. The expression's `value` field should be an `ast.Compare` node.

### Unit Tests
Invalid inputs:
- [[.tst-not-comparison]]: Test that a `MacroError` is raised when nodes not of type `ast.Compare` are found in the parsed annotation.
Valid inputs:
- [[.tst-comparison]]: Test that the processor correctly extracts the `ast.Compare` node when it is present.

## [[.extract]]: Extract range endpoints
An expression of the form `x < y < 5` will produce the following node:
```
Compare(left=Name(id='x', ctx=ast.Load()),
        ops=[
            ast.Lt(),
            ast.Lt(),
        ],
        comparators=[
            ast.Name(id='y', ctx=ast.Load()),
            ast.Num(n=5),
        ],
)
```
Note that although you would typically read this expression as "y is greater than x and less than 5", the node stores this as "x is less than y, which is less than 5".

A value that appears with a negative sign (`-`) in front of it will be wrapped in an `ast.UnaryOp` node, like so:
```
ast.UnaryOp(op=ast.USub(), operand=ast.Num(n=5))
```

`InRangeProcessor` shall extract endpoints that are positive or negative numbers.

### Unit Tests
Valid inputs:
- [[.tst-pos-int]]: Test that positive integers are extracted.
- [[.tst-neg-int]]: Test that negative integers are extracted.
- [[.tst-pos-float]]: Test that positive floats are extracted.
- [[.tst-neg-float]]: Test that negative floats are extracted.
Invalid inputs:
- [[.tst-only-lits]]: Test that only literals are accepted.
Semantics:
- [[.tst-order]]: Test that ranges are rejected when the left literal is greater than the right literal.
- [[.tst-equal]]: Test that ranges are rejected when the two literals are equal.

## [[.ast-func]]
There shall be a method `ast_to_func` that converts an AST into a function. The method shall take the AST and the name of the function as arguments.

## [[.getter]]:
The getter function for the property will have the name `var_getter`, where `var` is the name of the corresponding class variable. The getter shall return the attribute `self._var`. The getter function shall be stored in the `MacroItem` for the corresponding class variable.

## [[.setter]]
The setter function for the property will have the name `var_setter`, where `var` is the name of the corresponding class variable. The setter shall only set the value of `self._var` when the provided value is within the range specified in the annotation. The setter function shall be stored in the `MacroItem` for the corresponding class variable.

### Unit Tests
Invalid inputs:
- [[.tst-outside-range]]: Test that the setter rejects values not in the specified range.
- [[.tst-setter-types]]: Test that the setter rejects values that are not integers or floats.
Valid inputs:
- [[.tst-in-range]]: Test that the setter accepts values in the specified range.

## [[.property]]
A property shall be constructed from the getter and setter functions stored in the `MacroItem` instance.

## [[.detect-init]]: Detect a class-specific `__init__` method
The processor shall detect whether the class definition includes its own `__init__`, or whether the `__init__` method is inherited. The contents of `MyClass.__init__.__qualname__` should end with `MyClass.__init__` if `MyClass` has its own `__init__` method (rather than an inherited one).

The processor shall have a method `InRangeProcessor._has_init()` that returns `True` when the class definition includes its own `__init__`, and `False` when the `__init__` is inherited.

### Unit Tests
Valid inputs:
- [[.tst-without-init]]: Test that the processor returns `False` when `__init__` is inherited.
- [[.tst-with-init]]: Test that `_has_init()` returns `True` when a class defines an `__init__` method.

## [[.init-ast]]: Construct `__init__` AST
When no `__init__` is included with the class definition, the processor shall construct an AST equivalent to
```
def __init__(self):
    super().__init__()
```
The processor shall have a static method named `InRangeProcessor._make_empty_init_ast()` that produces this AST.

## [[.init-stmts]]: Add initializations to `__init__`
A statement of the form `self._var = None` shall be appended to the `__init__` AST for each class variable selected for processing. These statements initialize the instance attributes that store the data used by the generated properties.

For a class definition
```
class MyClass:
    foo: "0 < foo < 1"
    bar: "1 < bar < 2"
```
the following statements should be added to `__init__`:
```
self._foo = None
self._bar = None
```
If `MyClass` had the following `__init__` method
```
def __init__(self, qux):
    self.qux = qux
```
the new `__init__` should be equivalent to
```
def __init__(self, qux):
    self.qux = qux
    self._foo = None
    self._bar = None
```

### Unit Tests
Basic function:
- [[.tst-init-stmts]]: Test that the backing instance variables are created.

## [[.bind-init]]: Bind `__init__` to class
To bind the `__init__` function to the class you execute the following line:
```python
setattr(self.cls, "__init__", init_func.__get__(self.cls))
```
where `setattr` has the signature
```
setattr(object, attribute, value)
```
and `object.__get__` has the signature
```
object.__get__(self, instance, owner)
```
I don't remember how this works.
All functions are non-date descriptors, meaning they define the `__get__` method of the descriptor protocol. The descriptor protocol
```
x.__get__(obj)
x.__set__(obj)
x.__del__(obj)
```
allows you to override what happens when the attribute lookup `obj.x` is performed depending on whether you're getting (`y = obj.x`), setting (`obj.x = y`), or deleting (`del obj.x`) the attribute.
